### Exercises 1.2-1
---

Give an example of an application that requires algorithmic content at the application level, and discuss the function of the algorithms involved.

#### `Answers`

Google Maps relies heavily on pathfinding alghoritm to determine shortest route recommendations and travel times for that path.

---

### Exercises 1.2-2
---

Suppose we are comparing implementations of insertion sort and merge sort on the same machine. For inputs of size n, insertion sort runs in $8\cdot n^2 $ steps, while merge sort runs in $64 \cdot n  \cdot \lg{n}$ steps. For which values of n does insertion sort beat merge sort?

#### `Answers`

Knowing Y is the instructions / seconds for the computer, thus

$$\frac{8 \cdot n^2}{Y} \lt \frac{64 \cdot n \cdot \lg{n}}{Y}, n?$$

$$ 8 \cdot n^2 \lt 64 \cdot n \cdot \lg{n}$$

$$n \lt 8 \cdot \lg{n}$$

To determine the intersection point we can rearrange the equation like this (note that $\lg$ is base 2)

$$\frac{1}{8} < \frac{\lg{n}}{n}$$

According to Wolfram Calculator its integer solutions is $2 \leq n \leq 43$

This shows that even tho merge sort algortihm implemented inefficiently (has bigger constant) but since its algortihm is not in polynomial time thus it will be faster overall for input size equal to 1 and larger than 43.

---

### Exercise 1.2-3
---

What is the smallest value of $n$ such that an algorithm whose running time is $100n^2$ runs faster than an algorithm whose running is $2^n$ on the same machine?

#### `Answers`

$$100n^2 < 2^n$$

If $n \in Z^{\geq0}$ then the polynomial-time algorithm will start getting faster when $n \gt 15$. This is due to the nature of polynomial vs exponential, and polynomial-time algorithm ($100 n ^2$) will always eventually run faster than exponential time algorithm.
